This is a proposal for an EXPEDITED software upgrade to the v1.9.4 software version of the Secret Network codebase on block 10185822, which is estimated to occur on August 14, 2023 at ~4:00 PM UTC. Block times have high variance, so please monitor the chain for a more precise time estimation.

## Background:

- [Downfall vulnerability](https://downfall.page/) was publicly disclosed earlier this month.
- In response and as a percussion measure we have executed a registration freeze, allowing us the necessary time to comprehensively assess its impact and potential risks.
- To mitigate this vulnerability, Intel scheduled a TCB Recovery to enforce patched platforms starting September 19, 2023 ([more info here](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/software-security-guidance/resources/q3-2023-intel-tcb-recovery-guidance.html)).

## Upgrade Rationale:

In light of this, with an aim to continue normal network operation ASAP and to bridge the gap between now and the scheduled TCB Recovery while keeping risk to a minimum, we have opted for an expedited upgrade proposal that will:

- reenable registrations of new (patched) nodes and rebooting existing nodes,
- enable early platform enforcement to allow only patched platforms to join the network,
- allow a week-long “grace period”, ending on August 21, 2023, 2:00 PM UTC, during which pre-registered nodes will be granted a limited window to patch their platforms or migrate to different patched machines without downtime. After this time window is closed, the network will activate strict enforcement automatically, and unpatched platforms will no longer be able to register or restart the node.

## Future actionables:

No additional upgrade will be necessary to enable Intel’s TCB Recovery or to address this vulnerability.

## Upgrade Instructions

See [docs.scrt.network](https://docs.scrt.network/secret-network-documentation/infrastructure/upgrade-instructions/v1.9.4) for upgrade instructions.
